Adding docs on OAuth for data integrations (#13060)
DataDog/integrations-core: docs/dev/oauth_for_data_integrations.md

---
title: OAuth for Data Integrations
kind: documentation
---

{{< beta-callout btn_hidden="true" >}}
  The Datadog Developer Platform is currently in beta. If you don't have access, contact apps@datadoghq.com.
{{< /beta-callout >}} 

## Overview

> OAuth enables you to authorize third-party integrations with access to specific scopes of their Datadog data. This authorization allows integrations to push data into Datadog and pull data out from Datadog. For example, if a user authorizes an integration for read access to their Datadog monitors, the integration can directly read and extract their monitor data. 

Author: ```suggestion
OAuth enables users to authorize third-party integrations with access to specific scopes of their Datadog data. This authorization allows integrations to push data into Datadog and pull data out from Datadog. For example, if a user authorizes an integration for read access to their Datadog monitors, the integration can directly read and extract their monitor data. 
```

For more information on Datadog’s OAuth implementation, see the [Datadog OAuth2 documentation][1].

## Use OAuth in a data integration 

OAuth allows Datadog customers to easily and securely authorize third-party platforms through a couple of clicks—without having to directly input API or app keys anywhere. You can use OAuth with existing data integrations or configure OAuth as a part of developing new data integrations.  

When building an integration with OAuth, you can select the exact scopes of data that your application needs access to, and the customer can grant access to the granular scopes that you’ve requested. While optional scopes are not supported, all scopes requested by an integration become accessible when a customer authorizes it. 

> ## Build a data integration with OAuth

Author: ```suggestion
## Build a new data integration with OAuth
```

> This section describes how to build a data integration with a tile on the [Marketplace][2] or [Integrations][3] page. If you’re building a data integration and want to add it to an existing tile on either page, see [Adding OAuth to an existing offering](##Adding-oauth-to-an-existing-offering).

Reviewer: Good catch, there's an extra # in here. FYI for anchor links to headers on the same page, you only need to use one ☺️
```suggestion
This section describes how to build a data integration with a tile on the [Marketplace][2] or [Integrations][3] page. If you’re building a data integration and want to add it to an existing tile on either page, see [Adding OAuth to an existing offering](#Adding-oauth-to-an-existing-offering).
```

### Create an app from a template

1. Navigate to the [Datadog Developer Platform][4] and click **+New App**. 

   You need to create an app for each integration OAuth client. Datadog ties this app to your integration once your integration is published.

> 2. Select a template and add a name for your app. Use the autogenerated command to scaffold a new app including the iFrame SDK. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select a Blank App and add a name for your app. 
```

   For more information about implementing the OAuth protocol with Datadog, see [Datadog OAuth2][1]. For more information about building and publishing an integration, see the [Integrations developer documentation][5].

6. Test the OAuth protocol by clicking **Test Authorization** on your client's details page. This directs you to the onboarding URL and starts the authorization flow that a customer takes. 

    Before your client is published, only members of your Datadog organization can authorize against your client during testing. 

7. To validate that OAuth is working properly, make a request to the `marketplace_create_api` endpoint with your token in the headers of the request. 

   If successful, this request returns an API key that you should securely save so you can use it to submit data into Datadog on behalf of the user. **You cannot access this API key value again after the initial request response**.

8. Test any additional scopes that you’ve requested access for.

### Publish the OAuth client

> In order to publish an OAuth client, you need to open a pull request for your data integration in either the [`integrations-extras`][5] or [Marketplace][6] GitHub repositories. 

Author: This falls under the section of "Building  a new integration", so I think it's fine, but i'll clarify that in the section header

> In order to publish an OAuth client, you need to open a pull request for your data integration in either the [`integrations-extras`][5] or [Marketplace][6] GitHub repositories. 

Author: For partners w/ existing integrations, we recommend they dont open a pull request. Once automated uninstallation instructions are set up, that should be correct. Until then, I'll probably get in touch with each partner and ask them to add this manually to their tile.

For more information about the integration publishing process, see the [Marketplace and Integrations documentation][7]. 

## Add OAuth to an existing offering

The process for adding an OAuth client to an existing integration is similar to what is outlined above, with some key differences.

### If you have an existing data integration that’s not connected to a UI Extension

Follow the [steps](#build-a-data-integration-with-oauth) above. Instead of opening a pull request, add a link to your existing file directory in the `integrations-extras` or Marketplace repository during the publishing process. 

### If you have an existing data integration that’s currently connected to a UI Extension (shares the same tile)

Instead of creating an app, navigate to an app that includes your published UI Extension in the Developer Platform and follow the remaining [steps](#create-an-oauth-client). You need to open a pull request to update the `app_uuid` field in the `manifest.json` file. 

> Once you’ve created your data integration's OAuth client and are ready for publishing, click **Edit** on your app and navigate to the **Publishing** tab under **General**. After completing the fields, you receive an `app_uuid` to use for publishing. Set this value as the `app_uuid` in your data integration's `manifest.json` file. 

Reviewer 2: The answer is no -- we cannot update an existing app's uuid, so this will have to change. Only partners creating a new integration should update their PR's `app_uuid` field to match the `published_app_uuid` from the dev platform -- otherwise, we must do the reverse and change the private app's `published_app_uuid` to match the existing published app.

> Once you’ve created your data integration's OAuth client and are ready for publishing, click **Edit** on your app and navigate to the **Publishing** tab under **General**. After completing the fields, you receive an `app_uuid` to use for publishing. Set this value as the `app_uuid` in your data integration's `manifest.json` file. 

Author: Would there be any action that the partner has to take in that case where they have an existing app?

> Once you’ve created your data integration's OAuth client and are ready for publishing, click **Edit** on your app and navigate to the **Publishing** tab under **General**. After completing the fields, you receive an `app_uuid` to use for publishing. Set this value as the `app_uuid` in your data integration's `manifest.json` file. 

Author: @bgoldberg122  updated in latest commit - take a look and let me know if everything is accurate

   In the authorization code grant flow, you receive an authorization code and refresh token, then exchange the code for an access token that can be used to access the data you want to pull from Datadog. 

   For more information about implementing the OAuth protocol with Datadog, see [Datadog OAuth2][1]. For more information about building and publishing an integration, see the [Integrations developer documentation][5].

6. Test the OAuth protocol by clicking **Test Authorization** on your client's details page. This directs you to the onboarding URL and starts the authorization flow that a customer takes. 

    Before your client is published, only members of your Datadog organization can authorize against your client during testing. 

7. To validate that OAuth is working properly, make a request to the `marketplace_create_api` endpoint with your token in the headers of the request. 

   If successful, this request returns an API key that you should securely save so you can use it to submit data into Datadog on behalf of the user. **You cannot access this API key value again after the initial request response**.

> 8. Test that your OAuth client will work across multiple [Datadog sites][8] by kicking off authorization from a non-US1 Datadog account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Test that your OAuth client can work across multiple [Datadog sites][8] by kicking off authorization from a non-US1 Datadog account:
```

>    - If you do not have access to a Sandbox account in a different site, please contact marketplace@datadog.com. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If you do not have access to a sandbox account on a different site, contact `marketplace@datadog.com`. 
```

>    - Export your app manifest from the account in the *original* Datadog site by navigating to the app you've created in the Developer Platform, clicking the gear icon in the top right and clicking "Export App Manifest". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Export your app manifest from the account in the *original* Datadog site by navigating to the app you've created in the Developer Platform, clicking the gear icon on the top right, and clicking **Export App Manifest**. 
```

>    - In your account in the *new* Datadog site, navigate to the Developer Platform and import your app manifest from step 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In your account on the *new* Datadog site, navigate to the Developer Platform and import your app manifest from Step 2.
```

>    - After successfully importing your manifest, navigate to the Oauth & Permissions tab to find your OAuth client, along with its Client ID and Client Secret. Use these credentials to test authorization from this site. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - After successfully importing your manifest, navigate to the **OAuth & Permissions** tab to find your OAuth client, along with its client ID and client secret. Use these credentials to test authorization from this site. 
```

9. Test any additional scopes that you’ve requested access for.

### Publish the OAuth client

In order to publish an OAuth client, you first need to open a pull request for your data integration in either the [`integrations-extras`][5] or [Marketplace][6] GitHub repositories. 

> As a part of your pull request, please update your README file with an **uninstallation** section under `## Setup` that includes the following instructions (along with any custom instructions you would like to add):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a part of your pull request, update your README file with an **uninstallation** section under `## Setup` that includes the following instructions (along with any custom instructions you would like to add):
```

> - To ensure this integration is fully uninstalled, revoke authorization in the Configure tab of this tile or in [OAuth Apps](https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/oauth-applications) within Organization Settings in Datadog. 
> - Additionally, ensure that all API keys associated with this integration have been disabled by searching for the integration name on the [API Keys management page](https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To ensure this integration is fully uninstalled, revoke authorization in the Configure tab of this tile or in [OAuth Apps][9] within Organization Settings in Datadog. 
- Additionally, ensure that all API keys associated with this integration have been disabled by searching for the integration name on the [API Keys management page][10].
```

To start the publishing process in the [Developer Platform][4]:

> 1. Navigate to the **Publishing** tab under **General**. In step 1 of the publishing flow, you receive your published client ID and secret. In step 2, you can enter additional information about your integration and see the published `app_uuid` to use below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Publishing** tab under **General**. In Step 1 of the publishing flow, you receive your published client ID and secret. In Step 2, you can enter additional information about your integration and see the published `app_uuid` to use below.
```

You cannot edit a published OAuth client directly, so only go through the publishing flow when everything has been tested and is ready to go. To make updates to the OAuth client, you need to go through the publishing flow again. **The published client credentials do not appear again**.

For more information about the integration publishing process, see the [Marketplace and Integrations documentation][7]. 

## Add OAuth to an existing offering

The process for adding an OAuth client to an existing integration is similar to what is outlined above, with some key differences.

### If you have an existing data integration that’s not connected to a UI Extension

Follow the [steps](#build-a-data-integration-with-oauth) above, and ensure that you open a pull request to add new uninstallation instructions to your integration tile.

> **Note**: There's no need to change your `app_uuid` in the manifest.json file if you have an existing data integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's no need to change your `app_uuid` in the `manifest.json` file if you have an existing data integration.
```

### If you have an existing data integration that’s currently connected to a UI Extension (shares the same tile)

Instead of creating an app, navigate to the app that includes your published UI Extension in the Developer Platform and follow the remaining [steps](#create-an-oauth-client). 

Once you’ve created your data integration's OAuth client and are ready for publishing, click **Edit** on your app and navigate to the **Publishing** tab under **General**. 

> **Note**: There's no need to change your `app_uuid` in the manifest.json file if you have an existing data integration and/or UI Extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: There's no need to change your `app_uuid` in the `manifest.json` file if you have an existing data integration or UI Extension.
```

### If you have a published UI Extension and want to add a data integration to the same tile

> Instead of creating an app, navigate to an app that includes your published UI Extension in the Developer Platform and follow the remaining [steps](#create-an-oauth-client).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of creating an app, navigate to the app that includes your published UI Extension in the Developer Platform and follow the remaining [steps](#create-an-oauth-client).
```

> Open a pull request to update your existing tile with additional information about your integration—including updates to the README, image folder, and more. Additionally, update the `app_uuid` value in the manifest.json file to match the `app_uuid` value shown during the Developer Platform publishing process. Add a link to this pull request during the publishing process.

Reviewer 2: This falls under "adding an integration client to an existing listing", so they would not update their `app_uuid`. The issue is that we cannot update the `uuid` of an existing app (it will create a new published app instance and all installations and other objects will not be carried over). So we will need to manually backfill these apps a well.

## Further Reading

Additional helpful documentation, links, and articles:

- [OAuth 2.0 in Datadog][1]

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/authorization/oauth2_in_datadog/
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/apps
[5]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/
[6]: http://github.com/DataDog/marketplace
[7]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/marketplace/#develop-your-offering

> [8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[9]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/oauth-applications
[10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
```

   - In your account on the *new* Datadog site, navigate to the Developer Platform and import your app manifest from Step 2.
   - After successfully importing your manifest, navigate to the **OAuth & Permissions** tab to find your OAuth client, along with its client ID and client secret. Use these credentials to test authorization from this site. 

9. Test any additional scopes that you’ve requested access for.

### Publish the OAuth client

In order to publish an OAuth client, you first need to open a pull request for your data integration in either the [`integrations-extras`][5] or [Marketplace][6] GitHub repositories. 

As a part of your pull request, update your README file with an **uninstallation** section under `## Setup` that includes the following instructions (along with any custom instructions you would like to add):

- To ensure this integration is fully uninstalled, revoke authorization in the Configure tab of this tile or in [OAuth Apps][9] within Organization Settings in Datadog. 

> - Additionally, ensure that all API keys associated with this integration have been disabled by searching for the integration name on the [API Keys management page][10].

Author: @alai97 This is text that the user should copy and paste into their readme file. Is there any kind of UI Component we can use to represent this?

Reviewer: Good catch!
